NOTE: This FAQ is a simplified explanation and not legally binding in
its details. See the license text itself for precise details.


Who owns the MML?

The owner, as far as copyright is concerned, of the MML is the SUM
(Association of Mizar Users). However, the MML permits other people to
use and redistribute the MML, under some conditions.

Each contributor also gets special permission to do anything he
wished, without any condition, with his own contribution.


Who can use the MML?

Anybody can use the MML for any purpose whatsoever without any
restriction nor obligation, as long as "use" does not include
redistributing (giving a copy) of (part of) the MML, nor any article
using the MML, to any third party.

"Using" the MML typically entails using definitions / theorems /
schemas / notations / ... from the MML to write new proofs, or to
add, delete or modify definitions / proofs / ... in the MML.


What do I have to do if I want to redistribute the MML, or part
thereof, unmodified?

You have to inform the people you give the MML to of their rights and
obligations. Specifically, include the files COPYING.* in the copy you
redistribute. You may not forbid other people to exercise the rights
given to them by the SUM.


What do I have to do if I want to redistribute (part of) the MML,
modified or augmented, or an article that invokes (a) theorem(s) /
notation(s) / scheme(s) / ... from the MML?

1) Add to the header of the file:

   Copyright © YEAR_OF_MODIFICATION YOUR NAME <your_email@example.org>

   If your employer owns your work, that would be:

   Copyright © YEAR_OF_MODIFICATION YOUR_EMPLOYER <employer_email@example.org>

2) You have to give others the same rights you got, that is you have
   to license your modifications and your new articles under the GNU
   GPL v3 (or later), the Creative Commons BY-SA v3 (or later), or
   (preferably) both.

   If your employer owns your work, this requires his/her permission.

3) Include the files COPYING.* in what you redistribute.


What do I have to do if I want my enhancements to go into the
"official" version of the MML, distributed by mizar.org?

1) Sign the Fiduciary Licensing Agreement, if you have not already
   done so.

   If you live in France, sign the FLA again even if you did so in the
   past.

2) Update the SUM copyright line to include the current year. E.g. for
   modifications you did in 2010, change

   Copyright © 1989-1995 Association of Mizar Users
                         (Stowarzyszenie Uzytkownikow Mizara, Białystok, Poland).

   to

   Copyright © 1989-1995,2010 Association of Mizar Users
                         (Stowarzyszenie Uzytkownikow Mizara, Białystok, Poland).

   or

   Copyright © 1989-2009 Association of Mizar Users
                         (Stowarzyszenie Uzytkownikow Mizara, Białystok, Poland).

   to

   Copyright © 1989-2010 Association of Mizar Users
                         (Stowarzyszenie Uzytkownikow Mizara, Białystok, Poland).

   For new articles, put in the header:

   Copyright © 2010 Association of Mizar Users
                         (Stowarzyszenie Uzytkownikow Mizara, Białystok, Poland).

3) Send the signed FLA, along with your enhancements to the MML, to
   the Mizar project.


Can I write a program that uses the MML?

Yes, you can. However, if you wish to *distribute* this program,
please observe the following: no restriction is put on your program as
long as it does not contain (part of) the MML itself. Your program can
use the MML as data. E.g. you can write a Mizar implementation, a
proof transformer / converter, ... In this case, no restriction is put
on your program. However, the result of running your program over the
MML (e.g. proofs converted to Isar or HOL Light, beautified proofs,
...) is still covered by the SUM copyright and subject to the same
permissions and conditions as the original MML.

If (part of) the MML ends up in your program itself, even in another
shape than text files (e.g. as a parse tree or memory dump that is in
the executable file), then your whole program needs to be released
under the GNU GPL, or a license compatible with it (e.g. 2-clause BSD,
X11/MIT, ...). See
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.html#GPLCompatibleLicenses

A good rule of thumb is: If

 - your program compiles and links completely without the build
   process using (part of) the MML (in any shape) at all;

 - the compiled program is byte-to-byte identical to the compilation
   in the presence of the MML;

 - the compiled program is independently useful (for example, it would
   be useful on an article written in the Mizar language that does not
   use the MML);

then there is probably no restriction on your program. Your program
can e.g. use the MML in its automated test-suite: when you run the
test-suite, your program is already fully compiled.

Obviously, if you distribute the MML along with your program, you
still have to obey the conditions for the MML.


I want to do something not allowed by the license.

Get in touch with the SUM, explaining what you want to do and why you
cannot do it under the terms of the GNU GPL or CC-BY-SA.

If your project advances the state of art of science ands its broad
availability to humankind, you may get permission from the SUM.

If you wish to commercially exploit the MML, the SUM may be willing to
sell you a license that fits your needs. E.g. if you want to integrate
the MML into an interactive exercise system for mathematics system and
you sell (access to) this system.
