The SUM licensing committee:

 - RECOMMENDS:

   Future contributors to the Mizar code base should sign the attached
   Mizar_FLA.{tex,pdf}. This copyright assignment was modified to
   cover not just the "Articles", but also the "Software", and it can
   now be used to assign both kinds of work to SUM.


 - RECOMMENDS:

   To start gradual public release of the Mizar source files, starting
   for example with the new Mizar parser and related files. Mizar
   developers can gradually add more parts of the Mizar sources to
   the public release, as they consider them fit for public eyes.


 - RECOMMENDS:

   The publicly released Mizar software should be licensed under the
   GNU GPL v3 or later.

   Each public source file should have as a header (with the years adapted, of
   course):

   Copyright © 1989-2010 Association of Mizar Users
                         (Stowarzyszenie Uzytkownikow Mizara, Białystok, Poland).
   This code can be distributed under the GNU General Public Licence
   version 3.0 or later. See COPYING.GPL for the full text of this
   license, or see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html .


   The file COPYING.GPL should be placed in the root directory of the
   public Mizar sources distribution.



 - RECOMMENDS: The SUM should keep track of who contributed which part
   of which file. This can e.g. be implemented by using a version
   control system that supports a command similar to git's "blame" or
   Subversion's "annotate", and mentioning the original contributor in
   the commit message. The enclosed script git-authors.pl (also at
   http://github.com/JUrban/MMLLicense/raw/master/git-authors.pl)
   creates such information from a git repository.

   The changes to the public files in the Mizar CVS can be mirrored in
   some public repository.


EXPLANATION FOR RECOMMENDATIONS:

 - The Mizar project should keep its current policy of copyright
   assignment to the Association of Mizar Users (Stowarzyszenie
   Uzytkownikow Mizara, SUM) for contributions to the sources code.

   This is mainly to allow the license to be easily changed if it is
   needed or useful in the future.  We think that the world of
   licenses is developing, and only if the copyright is centralized
   (owned by SUM), it will be feasible to suitably change the
   licensing.

   However, we recommend that the copyright assignment be linked to a
   pledge of the SUM to maintain free / open source licensing of the
   code forever in the future. This pledge is not meant to forbid the
   SUM to sell commercial licenses as an alternative for people that
   do not want to obey the free / open source license.

   To that effect, we recommend the attached "Mizar_FLA.{tex,pdf}" to
   become the standard copyright assignment agreement that
   contributors sign. It is adapted from one made by real lawyers for
   the Free Software Foundation Europe, and meant for broad
   applicability in European jurisdictions. As such, we believe it
   will be good for the SUM's Polish jurisdiction.

   The link to free / open source license serves two related purposes:

   * It reassures the contributors that their contribution will be
     available for free study, use, etc by humankind (the ultimate
     purpose of science).

   * It protects the community / humanity from a potential future
     infiltrated SUM; if the SUM "misbehaves" gravely 50 years from
     now, the software is essentially handed back to the community.

   The copyright assignment allows parallel (typically commercial)
   licensing, but it is restricted to cases when "AMU considers it
   beneficial for progress in science and technology, and the AMU's
   profit is used for further support of its goals". There are two
   explanations to this:

   * We want to allow serious (research) companies to base their work
     on Mizar. For example, the recent verification of the L4
     operating system done in Isabelle has not been fully published,
     and it may serve as commercial basis for a NICTA start-up.

   * If we provide alternative licensing to somebody, it is a serious
     (possibly money-making) decision done over the work of Mizar
     contributors. We want to re-assure the Mizar contributors that it
     will be done only in cases that benefit progress in science and
     technology, and the profit will be used for further support of
     formal mathematics.

 - The MML should be licensed under the GNU GPL v3 or later, GNU
   GPL is the license ordinarily used for free / open code.

