The licensing committee for the Mizar Mathematical Library:

 - RECOMMENDS:
   Future contributors should sign the attached Mizar_FLA.{tex,pdf}

   Also contributors that have already signed the old copyright
   assignment form should transition to the new agreement, e.g. on the
   occasion of a new contribution by them.

   There might be a web-based submission process that we will define
   later, similar to the Wikipedia or Arxiv submission processes.

 - RECOMMENDS:
   The MML should be dual-licensed under the GNU GPL v3 or later
   and CC BY-SA v3 or later.

   Each file should have as a header (with the years adapted, of
   course):

   Copyright © 1989-2010 Association of Mizar Users
                         (Stowarzyszenie Uzytkownikow Mizara, Białystok, Poland).
   This code can be distributed under the GNU General Public Licence
   version 3.0 or later, or the Creative Commons
   Attribution-ShareAlike License version 3.0 or later,
   subject to the binding interpretation detailed in file
   COPYING.interpretation.
   See COPYING.GPL and COPYING.CC-BY-SA for the full text of these
   licenses, or see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html and
   http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/

 - RECOMMENDS:
   The file COPYING.interpretation shall contain the following text:

   For the purposes of the GNU GPL, it is understood that an article A
   using another article B (by means of environment commands such as
   vocabularies, notations, constructors, registrations, requirements,
   definitions, theorems or schemes) is "linked to" and "combined with"
   B.

   For the purposes of the CC-BY-SA license, it is understood that an
   article A using another article B (by means of environment commands
   such as vocabularies, notations, constructors, registrations,
   requirements, definitions, theorems or schemes) is an "adaptation" of
   article B.

 - RECOMMENDS:
   The files COPYING.interpretation, COPYING.GPL and COPYING.CC-BY-SA
   should be placed in the root directory of the MML distribution.

 - RECOMMENDS: The SUM should keep track of who contributed which part
   of which file. This can e.g. be implemented by using a version
   control system that supports a command similar to git's "blame" or
   Subversion's "annotate", and mentioning the original contributor in
   the commit message. The enclosed script git-authors.pl (also at
   http://github.com/JUrban/MMLLicense/raw/master/git-authors.pl)
   creates such information from a git repository.

 - COMMENTS:
   As we ask for copyright assignment to the SUM of contributions, it
   is important that the SUM be seen as trusted by the community. An
   open organisation, that contributors can think of as "us" as
   opposed to "them", will tend to be much more trusted by the
   contributors. Therefore, it would be very beneficial that:

   * The bylaws of the SUM be easy to find, translated in the major
     languages used for mathematics, science and technology
     (currently, that is English).

     We take note that this is already the case, at
     http://mizar.org/sum/statute.new.html, provided these are
     up-to-date.

   * The contributors, as a community, feel in control of the
     SUM. Membership should thus stay relatively open to contributors
     and voting on important matters should be easy,
     e.g. internet-based.

 - PROPOSES:
   The licensing committee proposes to become a standing committee,
   and to stay at the disposal of SUM and the community
   for handling any future issues related to licensing, copyright, etc.


EXPLANATION FOR RECOMMENDATIONS:

 - The Mizar project should keep its current policy of copyright
   assignment to the Association of Mizar Users (Stowarzyszenie
   Uzytkownikow Mizara, SUM) for contributions to the MML.

   This is mainly to allow the license to be easily changed if it is
   needed or useful in the future. The committee has discussed several
   lincensing options, and consulted other people and the Software
   Freedom Foundation. We think that the world of licenses is
   developing, the territory of formal mathematics is unexplored (is
   it code or text?), and similar projects (Isabelle, Coq, PlanetMath)
   all have their peculiar licensing policies (making it hard to
   optimize the licensing at least for possible translations between
   projects). All this can change in the future, and only if the
   copyright is centralized (owned by SUM), it will be feasible to
   suitably change the licensing.

   However, we recommend that the copyright assignment be linked to a
   pledge of the SUM to maintain free / open source licensing of the
   MML forever in the future. This pledge is not meant to forbid the
   SUM to sell commercial licenses as an alternative for people that
   do not want to obey the free / open source license.

   To that effect, we recommend the attached "Mizar_FLA.{tex,pdf}" to
   become the standard copyright assignment agreement that
   contributors sign. It is adapted from one made by real lawyers for
   the Free Software Foundation Europe, and meant for broad
   applicability in European jurisdictions. As such, we believe it
   will be good for the SUM's polish jurisdiction.

   The link to free / open source license serves two related purposes:

   * It reassures the contributors that their contribution will be
     available for free study, use, etc by humankind (the ultimate
     purpose of science).

   * It protects the community / humanity from a potential future
     infiltrated SUM; if the SUM "misbehaves" gravely 50 years from
     now, the MML is essentially handed back to the community.

   The copyright assignment allows parallel (typically commercial)
   licensing, but it is restricted to cases when "AMU considers it
   beneficial for progress in science and technology, and the AMU's
   profit is used for further support of its goals". There are two
   explanations to this:

   * We want to allow serious (research) companies to base their work
     on Mizar. For example, the recent verification of the L4
     operating system done in Isabelle has not been fully published,
     and it may serve as commercial basis for a NICTA start-up.

   * If we provide alternative licensing to somebody, it is a serious
     (possibly money-making) decision done over the work of Mizar
     contributors. We want to re-assure the Mizar contributors that it
     will be done only in cases that benefit progress in science and
     technology, and the profit will be used for further support of
     formal mathematics.

 - The MML should be dual-licensed under the GNU GPL v3 or later
   and CC BY-SA v3 or later.

   As MML articles are both:

   * "documents" at least partially meant for human consumption

   * "code" meant for interpretation by computer programs

   we recommend to license the MML under one license ordinarily used
   for documents (CC-BY-SA) and one license ordinarily used for code
   (GNU GPL).

 - The GNU GPL and CC BY-SA shall be interpreted so that their
   "copyleft / share-alike" mechanism is triggered by any use of the
   MML.

   This means that anybody using the MML in a work that he/she
   redistributes must apply the GNU GPL or the CC BY-SA to his work,
   too. Unless he gets special authorisation from the SUM, which the
   SUM could for example sell him, or give on a case-by-case basis
   without charge, if that use advances the development of science and
   its free availability to all humankind.

   People that use the MML to make new proofs, but don't show them to
   anyone are not subject to any obligation. So e.g. if Intel wants to
   use Mizar (instead of HOL Light, as they currently partially do) to
   prove (parts of) their processors correct as part of their internal
   Quality Assurance process, they can do so without any
   restriction or obligation. But if they want to show (give a copy
   of) their proofs to other people (e.g. to convince them to buy
   Intel processors), they have to allow these people to change the
   proofs (e.g. to prove AMD processors correct) and to redistribute
   them further. If Intel wants to avoid that obligation (so that AMD
   does not benefit from their work), they can ask the SUM for
   permission, for which the SUM could require payment; a kind of
   "does not play by the rules of science" tax, similar to the
   "polluter pays" principle.
